So in the last part we have created or like we have put things inside the frame using the panels delivers.
Now we have created this action performed and key type function for checking for the inputs by the user,
whether it is by pressing the buttons or with the text field, how the application is going to handle
the inputs.
We have checked every exception inside this action performed on key type functions.
Now, after checking all of them, we are coming to the main part that how the add and delete are going
to work.
So currently it is showing that once we will create method then automatically this red underline will
be gone.
So let us try by creating public void add function and see how it works.
So it is going to take our first integer inputs only.
And inside this function add function, we are going to add like notes.
Of course this add method is going to make new notes, so let us create a new node and the method will
call a new note.
Of course, we have created this note as a global variables already.
Now this new.
More info.
So info is going to contain the data inside the node.
And there is a word for the known.
So into it, we'll get it through it.
We have already created this get with method above in the core.
So new node will take that from there.
I think it was 4040 for the new node and checking that how we could like add this nodes to the three.
So if root is null, so suppose that the tree is empty, then how this addition is going to be done.
So inside this if statement, we are going to create a root which will contain the new node.
And.
If we are adding that new node, then we have to set up ten heights for that new node, of course.
So the new node is going to be our first layer data don't get mounts or we have to set the bounds for
the new node.
Okay.
So set months and.
Arguments will be three panels, so the node should be added inside the three panel only it should not
like get anywhere in the frame.
There is a fixed place for the new node inside the frame, so it should like attach that only and the
width.
Why do?
Cuomo.
Ten Cuomo.
So basically this is the dimension for the.
Noonan.
New.
Is going to initially, like the new node is the starting point of the tree.
So we have talked about the points we have there declared it as P and that point for the new node is
going to be like we have x one, y1x2 and y two.
So we have to set those points for this new node and it is going to be 000 and zero.
So yes, if the root is like null, we have to like make a new root for the tree.
Then the x1y1x2y2 is going to be 0000.
Yes, this is about the point.
Now suppose if the root is not null like there is already members present inside the tree, then the
f statement should be taken into consideration.
The node current.
The current node will be pointing to the already created nodes.
Which will become the route for the three.
And we will assign the route.
So we are adding a new node to the tree.
So we will be talking about the new node.
We will call it as current and already present node there in the tree.
We will call it as pre.
So an integer will contain the data of the new node, which is like being created right now.
So X is going to be our decide the x axis of that new newly made coordinate.
So three panels don't get bounce.
And so I guess this gets bounced.
And after this, getting the bounty.
Now we have to.
Okay.
So for the last block, we are checking that if that is or not already present in the tree, then how
the new node is going to be attached inside the tree.
So yes, checking that if current is not equal to null, like what we are adding to the tree has our
data should contain a valid integer that could be added inside the tree.
And we are assigning that tree to current.
Like basically we are pointing things and how this tree linking is done.
So we use pointers in order to point the current node to the already existing known as these nodes to
be like our task as we are making a hierarchical data structure.
Then the new node suppose it is lesser than the already present node, then it should be added in the
left side and if it is greater then then it should be added in the right subtree.
So we have to point things to each other.
So if it is less than then we have to use this current which is pointing to the previous like tree which
we are calling it, and they should be linked in a manner that that shows the relation between them.
That is it is the left side of this already existing node.
So yes, we are checking it head inside that function and if it is less then then it is added in the
left part, otherwise it is added in the right.
So here we are doing that.
So if the current data is greater then then we will add current to the left and otherwise to the right.
Subtree and suppose we try to add a like integer which is already present in the tree.
Then also there should be our exception checking that OC.
So dialog box will appear, which will say that this node is already existing inside the tree.
Try adding something again.
So this is how it is working.
We have to check that.
Yes, this node is already present or not like it is a unique node for the tree or not.
And then only we should add inside the tree.
Now after adding this, the x is like decrease to half as suppose initially the x is five centimetres.
You can see this line, the height is continuously decreasing.
So suppose if it is five centimetres then in the next part it will be decreased to half again.
Here you can see that it is again reduced to half.
So this is how it is working.
We are dividing this thing into two parts.
We are working with the same length of line.
But how to like manage everything with the same length of right.
So this is a division of two things.
We are talking about a binary thing.
So we will simply split this line only to two parts and then add it to the left and right.
Subtree.
Okay, so after this we are going to.
Inside current data it's going to pass into like we are going to pass this data in a string format to
be displayed on the frame.
So percent reader data don't get text.
So getting the current node, which is added as a test and index, is going to contain the pre data,
not get text or so getting the X coordinate for the previous node which is already present in the.
And using a bracket to call this get X.
And similarly for the Y three dot data, get Y.
Okay, so this is how it is done.
Now, after this, we have to also set a dimension for the pre.
So dimension pre dimension for the pre data don't get size.
So pre data again getting the previous size for the node as that is a size we have already decided for
a node and the current.
So similar way we will use it for the current dimension and new dimension.
Wait.
So wait for the new note or we can call it current.
No.
Dot text.
Hide.
So that text, which is like input inside the frame, is containing a height of course.
So we have to decide the dimension of the node according to that height.
We have to adjust that text inside the rectangle, which we have created in that manner.
So this was all about the add part.
The we have created the ADD function correctly, but how to add nodes inside the beast now coming to
the delete function.
So public void delete.
So inside this delete function.
Also we have to check that whether the tree is empty or full.
So suppose if we want to delete any note from empty tree, then definitely it will throw exception inside
a dialog box that BSD is empty.
You cannot delete anything from an empty BSD.
You have to add something to the tree in order to delete it.
So yes, this if and LS is checking that only that whether the tree is empty or not.
So suppose if a tree is containing a node like there are members inside the BSD, then we will set the
current to root and tree to root.
So once the current is not equal to none, like suppose the tree is containing some elements.
Then again we have to pass that integer in the form of string and then the info will like info.
So what is info?
Info is the data inside the node.
So if we have to delete something, firstly we have to check that whether the subtree presented, how
it should be like relocated.
So we are basically rearranging them.
So suppose we want to delete 350 then where this 400 should be attached in order to like only remove
tree 50 and the tree should not even violate the principle of a binary search string.
So suppose we are removing this tree 15 then this 400 should be added as the right subtree of 250.
Then only the principle of BSD will not be violated.
So we are checking that inside this.
If then info is greater than data of the node which we are like wishing to delete, then we have to
set it as its left subtree.
So here we have already 200.
So suppose if we have something, suppose we have 150 and we want to delete.
Suppose we have had 150 as its or left subtree and we want to delete 200 from her.
Then we have to add that 150 as the left is like left subtree of this 200 and this part should be removed.
And otherwise, if I want to correct myself, it is not 150, but it is 250.
So suppose we want to remove this to 50 from this tree then how?
This tree will relocate itself so the left child of 500 should be changed.
So what it could be.
So suppose if we are deleting this to 50, then any of them could be the left sub sub child of this
500.
So once this to 50 will be deleted.
So 1050 will become the child left child of 500.
And we have an element less than 350, which is 200, which can be its left child and 400 which is greater
than 50.
So we can make it as it's right.
Child So this is how this rearrangement will be done once a node is deleted.
And that is what exactly we are checking inside this code by, like pointing to current left and current
right.
Basically, current is the node which is being deleted and we are checking it left, left and right
subject.
That's how we can rearrange them in order to not to violate the principles of binary search tree.
And yes, this is all about checking that how the derangement should be done and this repentance for
we have already discussed repent once in a project.
So this repaint is about removing unknown, like removing the graphics which is present and then adding
something in place in a minimum amount of time.
Like there should be no time lag in removing this node after hitting this delete button and forming
the new subtree.
So this is done with the help of this repaint function.
Yes.
So after all the checking, we have to rearrange the notes according to the best law.
We will create this rearrange function in then net how the notes are going to rearrange themselves.
So yes, we will creating this rearrange function in the next part and also create functions for in
order to reorder and post order.